---
layout: post
title: d3 Made Easy
---

Are you hungry for cool charts? Yet, you do not want to waste away your time dotting i's and crossing t's? You are at the right place.

A few shortcuts could get you started with d3 pretty quickly. However, adding bells and whistles would be a totally different effort, worth spending if your client demands it. I would have to mention masters of d3 and associated to works - Mike Bostock (http://bost.ocks.org/mike/algorithms/), Peter Cook (http://animateddata.co.uk/), David Souther (nvd3), Areski & Oz (python-nvd3) and many others.

I made a bunch of ROC curves (machine learning nerds would know what this is!) charting true-positive-rates and false-positive-rates from a few machine learning models (sklearn rocks!).

A meticulous developer would do this using d3 toolkit from json source, and polish away to prettify things. A lazy (but practical) developer (like myself) would work on getting a similar output from python. Thanks to Areski & Oz for their innovative python-nvd3 modules.

The result is no less than clean. I built my line chart off of the following code snippet. This would be print the html + d3 content ready to be tweaked to our need.

[My chart looked like this.](http://hvsarma.github.io/nvd3/examples/index.html)

{% highlight ruby %}
from nvd3 import lineChart

type = "lineChart"
chart = lineChart(name=type, x_is_date=False, x_axis_format="AM_PM")

xdata = list(range(0, 24))
ydata = [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 4, 3, 3, 5, 7, 5, 3, 16, 6, 9, 15, 4, 12]
ydata2 = [9, 8, 11, 8, 3, 7, 10, 8, 6, 6, 9, 6, 5, 4, 3, 10, 0, 6, 3, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1]

kwargs1 = {'color': 'black'}
kwargs2 = {'color': 'red'}
extra_serie = {"tooltip": {"y_start": "There is ", "y_end": " calls"}}
chart.add_serie(y=ydata, x=xdata, name='sine', extra=extra_serie, **kwargs1)
extra_serie = {"tooltip": {"y_start": "", "y_end": " min"}}
chart.add_serie(y=ydata2, x=xdata, name='cose', extra=extra_serie, **kwargs2)

chart.buildhtml()
print chart.htmlcontent
{% endhighlight %}



